ABBY: Previously,
on Dance Moms...
MAN (over the phone):
(indistinct) this weekend has
been canceled.
Oh, my God.
-Calm down, calm down.
-(sobs)
Nia...
Whatever. I'll pack my bags
and go home right now!
-That would not make me happy--
-Because that's what I'm doing!
-ABBY: And you know who's gonna
lose? -I'm sick of this (bleep)!
-ANNOUNCER: This is Maddie.
-(cheers and applause)
ANNOUNCER: Here we go.
-(dramatic effect)
-JILL: Oh! I gotta go.
I don't want to make Abby mad.
ABBY: Jill, you have a big
decision to make.
Don't take it lightly.
I'll discuss it
with my daughter.
You know? What we come up with.
That's just a little something.
ABBY: You know
everyone's going hate you
-when they see that?
-I've got nothing to lose.
-(laughing)
-Right?
-CHRISTI: I think you should--
-You guys pick on me
'cause you push me out--
-I think because you're a
diva... -...that's what she
wants.
-...table for one.
-Oh.
ABBY: I have had it with you!
What is she saying?
ABBY: You didn't show up
the whole month to take class.
Your mother sits out
there and screams.
We come to Dance to dance,
and sitting there is not dance.
Go.
HOLLY: And I think the guns are,
also as moms,
it's throwing us off a bit.
I've done children with guns.
That's what we entered,
that's what we're doing.
(gunshot)
(theme music playing)
SINGER: ♪Get up♪
♪Get on the floor♪
♪My world is with my girls♪
♪Livin' on the dance floor♪
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY: Ladies! Let's go!
Come on!
We have lots to go over.
It's going to be a busy,
busy, busy week here.
No coming late,
no leaving early.
Now, Texas.
We had all these plans made
to go to New Jersey.
And then, at the last minute,
we have to completely flip it.
There's a lot of dance companies
in this country
that would have said,
"Fine, we're not going."
And we didn't do that. We went,
some great things happened
and some really bad
things happened.
Now, this week,
we are going to Hollywood Vibe
right here in Pittsburgh.
(applause)
I want to see 100%
from every single one of you.
Remember, we're in our backyard.
You have a target on your back,
so do I.
There's a little bit more riding
on Hollywood Vibe
because it's in
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
The group number is
called "Private Eyes."
I'm going to arm you
with the secret weapon.
You're going to be using guns...
-(dramatic effect)
-ABBY: ...in your routine.
When you step on that stage,
I want you to kill it.
Understood?
You're going to blow
the competition away.
I'm not really
thrilled at the idea
of my daughter dancing on stage
with a weapon.
Plastic or not, it's still
sending the wrong message.
But I'm so used to sending
the wrong message at Abby's,
I should really just...
I should give up.
Now, we're going to
move into the pyramid.
Mackenzie...
you went from first to worst
in one routine.
You always have to keep working.
Nia, you had a pretty dance.
I thought you did well.
No problem.
Kendall...
I understand the
costume was an issue...
This is Kendall's costume.
They don't need a
$500 costume to win.
I'm sick of this (bleep)!
ABBY: Jill, I'm sure you have
something to say about it,
but I'll tell you what--
it doesn't matter what you wear.
Ultimately, at the
end of the day,
it's your technique.
That's what you need to work on.
All right. Next, Maddie.
(dramatic effect)
Maddie, you could have been
seriously injured.
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY: Get the pout
off your face, Maddie.
You know that you
made that mistake,
and that's what you get.
JILL: I don't feel that Maddie
should be at the bottom
of the pyramid this week.
I think it's ridiculous.
She fell, things happen,
and I'm just glad my
daughter's not hurt.
ABBY: So let that be a lesson
to everybody.
Don't change your
mind in midair.
Moving on.
Chloe.
Chloe, it was good,
but obviously not good enough.
Next, I have Brooke.
Great performance,
and then forgot the ending.
You didn't know what you were
doing and you just fizzled out.
And on the top of the pyramid...
-Paige.
-(squealing)
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY: Paige, your
legs were straight.
Your feet were pointed.
And you went out
there and you won it.
-Congratulations.
-Thank you.
KELLY: I think
everybody in the room
just wanted to, like,
jump up and down for Paige.
(laughs)
She has never been
at the top of the pyramid,
and she really deserves this.
All right, ladies,
the group number,
everyone will be dancing
except Mackenzie.
I'm going to enter a trio...
Chloe, Maddie, and...
Paige.
I'm going to pick you
back into the trio
because you're on
top of the pyramid.
Kendall...
get the look on your face.
I can't take any
chances this week.
I need to win.
JILL: Kendall and I
decide to stick this out.
We want to make this work.
We are team players.
So we come back,
we're part of the team,
and this is how Abby repays us--
by taking Kendall
out of the trio.
Chloe...
you will be doing a solo.
Maddie, you will
be doing a solo.
We're taking two champions
that already won
at Hollywood Vibe.
I'm telling you,
one of you better with it again.
-Do you understand?
-GIRLS: Yes.
I want to see that
champion in the studio.
You're dismissed.
-Thank you.
-GIRLS: Thank you.
No. You guys spread apart.
Let's go.
(upbeat music playing)
Girls, This is Hollywood Vibe.
The last time you
did your group there,
you didn't win.
It was embarrassing.
The group number is
called Private Eyes.
Every so many years,
I do some type of Dick Tracy,
private eye, "Charlie's Angels,"
something-something.
But I wanted to make
it a little edgier,
so guns.
I need--I need spies.
I need detectives.
Well, I'm sure hoping that
they're using just their fingers
as guns,
because I know those--
I know we're not allowed
to use those guns.
-Just like you said, they are
not allowed. -It is written--
I don't think we should allow
them to use guns.
-Absolutely. I think at some
point... -No.
...we just need to
put our foot down.
I don't have a
problem with the gun
or that idea.
I don't think little girl
should be dancing
around on stage with
guns in their hands.
-CHRISTI: I agree with that.
-I think we do have some
standards here.
-MELISSA: Yes.
-HOLLY: And they shouldn't be
doing that.
-Oh, teach my kid to use guns.
-You're going to blow
the competition away.
-Yeah. Blow the competition and
kill. -(overlapping chatter)
If you can't beat
'em, shoot 'em.
That doesn't--yeah.
That doesn't sound
like "Charlie's Angels."
1 and 2, and 3, and...
So I'm glad Paige
is back in the trio.
-I am, too.
-I know.
JILL: I don't understand why.
I thought for sure
she was going to put
Kendall back in it.
Paige was at the top
of the pyramid this week.
-MELISSA: That's why.
-She should be doing a solo.
Not just a trio,
She should be doing a solo.
She's at the top of the pyramid.
Jill's a little upset
that the Kendall's not in the
trio.
But when Kendall
was in the trio and Paige
wasn't,
Jill couldn't understand
why Kelly would be upset about
anything.
So, Jill, what's good for the
goose is good for the gander.
I'm feeling pretty
left out for my child,
who has been here
since she was three.
And she's never had a trio.
Holly, maybe if you were here
more often...
(Christi gasps)
...and Abby thought you were
more a part of us in the team,
maybe she would get more parts.
I just don't want
to pay extra for it.
But, yes, I want my
child to feel good.
(Christi chuckles)
See where you are?
Now go back.
Jill, it looks like Kendall is
getting a special little part in
there.
So you ought to be
happy about that.
Then pat me on the back.
Maybe I'm doing something right.
Money well spent on those gifts.
JILL: You guys always
want to jump down my throat.
You act like I've slashed
your tires or something.
I've done nothing wrong.
I'm trying to make things
better for myself
and my daughter here.
-When the gifts don't work...
-JILL: That's it.
...watch your tires!
(tense music playing)
(playful music playing)
Oh, my goodness.
JILL: I see how presents
go over well with Abby.
Just a little something.
We're going to
put a little bench
in front of the dance studio.
We're going to spruce
it up a little bit.
I hope Abby appreciates it.
Thank you so much.
-You're very welcome.
-It's beautiful.
You know everyone's
going to hate you.
What is that?
Good morning.
-KELLY: "To Abby Lee--"
-HOLLY: Oh, good morning.
Oh, my God.
Just a little something
-we could all appreciate.
-Oh, for the love of God, Jill.
-(laughs)
-It's not for Abby.
It's for the studio.
A bench dedicated to Abby...
(sighs)
I think I've seen it all now.
Good Lord.
HOLLY: It's, like,
a shrine to Abby.
Well, it's actually
a shrine to Jill.
I thought Melissa was bad.
And the level of brown nosing
that Jill has brought to the
table
has just raised the ante.
Maybe you'll get to the top
of the ass kiss pyramid.
Now, Melissa is going
to be running around--
"How can I out brown
nose this one."
So all bets are off
at the Abby Lee Dance company.
You guys could have been
a little more receptive to the
bench.
It's not for Abby.
It's not for me.
-It's not for the kids.
-Except it says,
-"To Abby Lee, Love, Jill and
Kendall. -JILL: It's for
everybody.
-Because you guys pick on me.
-CHRISTI: I think you should--
'Cause you push me out.
-That's what you want.
-I think because you're a diva,
-table for one.
-Oh.
Table for one diva
-doesn't give people things...
-Right.
-JILL: ...and do things for
others. -Diva table for one
gives--
You would know
what that's about.
-I don't.
-CHRISTI: Oh, no.
Because I don't have to buy
my way through life, Jill.
Jill thinks that she
can just buy Abby off
and get Kendall
special treatment.
That drives me crazy.
Chloe works hard every day
and she never gets
special treatment from Abby.
And she deserves it.
Why don't you storm out?
Because we'd like to
talk about you now.
-(woman laughs)
-Oh, whatever you want to say,
say right in front of my face.
I think you're a
conniving bitch.
-I don't have to sit here--
-You're so immature.
-It doesn't hurt me one bit.
-Oh, my God! I'm immature?
-JILL: Yes.
-You are the most condescending
person
I've ever encountered.
-You are.
-Then you don't get out much,
-but we know that.
-Huh? I don't need to--
oh, you better stop right there.
(tense music playing)
You better stop right there.
ABBY: Back left, plié,
and out together.
Boom. Again.
The competition is
three days away,
and I'm still making changes
to the number.
Brooke and Nia, switch places.
If I see something wrong,
I have to change it.
And I'm a little worried.
5, 6, 7, go.
The dance still is not finished.
And I think what it--
what is done is a little hokey.
Don't you feel like you want
to turn this way?
Oh, my gosh.
Look, look, look, look, look,
look.
-Look at Abby.
-CHRISTI: Ooh.
Is that her sexy,
come hither look?
I'm thinking that's
her sexy look.
-(laughs)
-If that's her sexy look,
explain no further
why we're not married.
(laughter)
ABBY: Did she bend her knee?
Ten push-ups. Figure it up. Go.
(suspenseful music playing)
Twenty push-ups.
Your knee was bent.
Are you guys paying attention
to this in here?
-MELISSA: She's doing push-ups?
-Why is she doing push-ups?
What happened?
ABBY: Kendall, remember,
we only have three days
for you not to screw
this section up.
Do you understand?
-KELLY: The circle was too high.
-JILL: Soutenu and--yeah.
-WOMAN: Oh.
-CHRISTI: They have circles?
Jill?
KELLY: Ooh! Good
luck, girlfriend.
-CHRISTI: May the force be with
you. -(chuckles)
All right. I'm going
to dismiss them.
Kendall, stay in here.
Yeah. Come here.
I want to see you for a second.
I gave Kendall a special part.
But now, she's
getting sloppy with it
and she's forgetting
what she's doing.
You can't be Mommy,
the shoulder to cry on.
You need to be as tough as Abby.
These legs cut to be straight.
Yeah. I--I agree.
ABBY: You need to get this kid
down in her split.
You need to make sure
those legs are straight.
And you need to watch her.
Make sure those steps
are squared off.
Get that front leg
up on the step,
and get her butt down there.
We're good. She'll do it.
You can count on her.
Thank you.
JILL: I need Kendall
to nail this turn sequence.
If it takes getting her
her own little private on it,
then that's what it takes.
And I'm willing to do that.
(dramatic music playing)
ABBY: Okay, let's go.
Let me see what we
have from the top.
I hope you remember it.
The trio this week
entitled Over and Over,
is a contemporary piece.
Now, the girls learn this dance
months ago.
So this should just
be a refresher course
for Chloe, Paige, and Maddie.
SINGER: ♪Over and over♪
♪This I would do...♪
ABBY: Okay, stop.
Paige, look in the mirror
where Maddie's hands are.
Why can't you figure that out?
Why can't you look in
the mirror and say,
"One of us is different"?
(tense music playing)
ABBY: Paige, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Where is that foot?
In passé, coupé?
You're too old
for these little corrections.
Goodness.
I thought that putting Paige
on top of the pyramid
would build up her self-esteem,
that-that would give that kid
a shot in the arm
that she needed to
get her act together.
Big mistake.
I've have had it with you!
What is she saying?
You didn't show up
for a whole month to take class!
Your mother sits out
there and screams!
You know she won't say it to me
because she's a chicken (bleep).
She has to say to
somebody who's 10.
ABBY: You should have remembered
that trio.
Ridiculous.
Hit play. Make 'em do it again.
(tense music playing)
KELLY: I've been with Abby
since I was two and a half.
She was my dance teacher,
so I understand how
she's hard on dancers.
But, as a mom,
it's hard whenever
you're watching
your kid down there crying.
Excuse me.
Paige, can you come here,
please?
ABBY: She's done. Done.
Stupid is stupid does,
and I can't stand it anymore.
It's ridiculous.
There we go again with Kelly--
bad parenting.
Even a preschool mother knows
you don't come downstairs.
You don't open the door.
You let the teacher handle it.
Why do you let her bother you?
I just don't get it.
Just--who cares?
Look at her and be like,
"Who cares, Miss Abby?"
(Paige sobs)
KELLY: Paige is a sensitive kid.
That's how I want her to be.
And Abby flips out
because she's crying.
You know, she's
not professional.
Well, no, she's
She's a 10-year-old little girl
at dance class.
Do you not want to do it?
No, I do, but... (sobs)
KELLY: Okay.
...but she's gonna be mad at me.
Get control of yourself
and go ahead in.
And if she says you're done,
walk out and I'll walk in.
-It's not worth it. It's a
stupid dance. -(Paige sobs)
If she tells you
to leave, then say,
"You know what? Good.
Give it to somebody
else to learn."
(sobbing)
You okay?
-Don't you let her win.
-You're bigger than her.
-Not by size...
-Yeah.
...but you're--you're
better than her.
CHRISTI: It's your trio.
Don't you let her
kick you out of it.
-All right. Go ahead.
-Go ahead, Paige.
Take a breath. This is your--
Paige, this is your dance.
PAIGE: I think Abby was being
a little bit too hard
for our trio rehearsals.
I don't like when
she yells at us
because it makes us
feel really nervous.
And if we do it wrong,
we're going to
get it. (chuckles)
ABBY: Hollywood Vibe
is three days away.
So suck it up and
don't leave again,
because there's another kid
waiting to get in here.
-Go. 5, 6, 7, 8.
-SINGER: ♪Here I am♪
♪Waiting for you♪
-♪I can see what...♪
-Ding-dong! Look!
1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7--
8 would be the second,
not 8 and a 1, 2.
Whew.
This is a routine they learned
three months ago.
They didn't forget it
all because they're kids.
They forgot it
because they're irresponsible
dancers.
They screwed up.
They were supposed to practice
it on their own.
That is a waste of my
time and their time.
Chloe, don't cry. Be smarter!
8 means 8, not 9
and 1/2, not 10. 8!
Can't count to 8?
She's not even listening
to what I'm saying.
Think about Hollywood Vibe.
Because I can call them right
now and try to get our money
back
if you don't want to go.
Because I'm not
going to go there
and let what
happened to that trio
in St. Louis happen again.
You're going to go into your
solo and be fabulous,
and you're going to do your solo
and be fabulous,
and screw the trio
and screw the group?
No!
I want everything to look great.
Do you understand?
So you're done. Go ahead.
Use that door. Goodbye.
Was I politically correct?
No.
Was I furious?
Yes.
I want them to go home.
-I want them to get some sleep.
-Hmm. Uh-huh.
ABBY: They're yawning in my
face. They're distracted.
They don't know what--
their right from their left.
They can't count to eight.
They need to go home
before somebody gets hurt.
Girls, I don't need the tears!
You're nine, ten and
eleven years old.
Exactly!
ABBY: Every kid makes mistakes.
These mothers are
enabling their children
to make mistakes
and not own them.
My daughter was at the
top of the pyramid,
-and she's leaving the studio
crying. -CHRISTI: I love you.
This is why I say
(bleep) the pyramid.
Ooh, yay.
-Are all the tears over?
-KELLY: School tomorrow.
What are all the tears about?
I don't understand.
-Why you are crying?
-You don't understand?
-No.
-CHRISTI: Because you you're
screaming
in little kids' faces.
(mockingly) Little kids' faces!
CHRISTI: Yeah, little
kids' faces, Abby!
-Grow up!
-You grow up!
MELISSA: Abby's the
best. The girls--
they were just being
taught the things
that they forgot about the trio.
It was no big deal.
I think the moms
need to get a grip.
-You know what, Abby?
-ABBY: I wouldn't yell at her!
You should be so lucky to have
Chloe is your student.
Because she's a great dancer,
and everybody knows
it except for you.
-I made her! I know it!
-CHRISTI: No, you did not make
her!
Were you pregnant
for nine months?
I made her!
You know what?
You couldn't have given a
(bleep)
about her for so many years
when I sat up there
and I told her what to do.
Because you are too busy
looking at everybody else!
Oh, who else was I looking at?
-Oh, let me guess!
-KELLY: Everybody.
-(laughs)
-Who?
Who else?
CHRISTI: Abby does
not put any value
on any child in her studio
except for Maddie.
And those kids know it.
And it is a shame.
(tense music playing)
Disrespectful.
CHRISTI: You're like, the
definition of disrespectful.
Well, my mother
would have came in
and beat my butt
when I couldn't count to eight!
She would have been mortified!
White trash.
I didn't sign up for this.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Let's go. One more time.
Let's clean up the turns.
Move up stage!
After the big blow up
with Abby last night,
you know, everyone went home.
They got a good night's rest.
We tried to refocus.
Because talking to Abby
is like talking to a brick wall.
I might as well
just save my breath.
(dramatic music playing)
CHRISTI: Oh, look, there's guns.
At this point, with the guns,
I hope we go and we
get disqualified,
just to piss Abby off.
MADDIE: I know the difference
between a fake gun and a real
gun.
And I would never
touch a real gun.
But since we're using it in a
dance, as a prop,
I'm fine with it.
Be strong with that gun!
CHLOE: Miss Abby said
that for our group dance,
"Private Eyes,"
we were going to
use plastic guns.
And then she said we were going
to blow the competition away.
And I don't--I--
I really hope she
doesn't mean literally.
Because we could
get disqualified.
I think common sense tells you
when something is
not a good idea.
I think the choice
of having girls
performing with
guns is a poor one.
I don't support it.
I think the dance
doesn't need it.
I just don't think
it's appropriate for girls, or
any child,
to be playing with
guns on stage.
Oh. That's where they were,
the yellow and the pink.
All right. What's going on,
ladies? Because I got to run.
We've been watching the dance.
And I know you're going to say
we're not dance teachers
and we're moms.
But I know you want
to win this weekend.
The caliber of the piece--
it doesn't seem as high
as what you normally put out
there for the girls.
I think the guns
are also--as moms,
it's throwing us off a bit.
It seems a bit aggressive.
I've done children with guns,
and it won everything.
It was a piece of
brilliant work.
Besides shaking the
mothers up a bit,
guns are often used
in choreography,
like the Broadway show Chicago.
I wanted those girls
to walk into a
Pittsburgh competition,
armed and dangerous.
I want to do fast.
I want to do high energy.
I want to do entertainment.
That's what we entered.
That's what we're doing.
(upbeat music playing)
Up, ball change,
then go to grandé.
(soft piano music playing)
Stop. You're not
taking enough room.
You're doing that
whole jump right there.
Chloe's dance is Please.
-SINGER: ♪My blue balloon...♪
-Push.
Much better.
When Chloe does a
lyrical routine,
she second guesses herself.
She needs to step
out on that stage
like she is in total control.
Ooh, that was pretty.
As I'm watching Chloe
rehearse her solo,
I really think it has
a lot of potential.
It's really different
than what she normally does,
and there's a lot of opportunity
for, like, emotional portrayal
or acting in it.
Make that big and complete,
and it's moving.
Turn, turn.
That looks better. Yeah.
I like that dance. It's pretty.
Hey, Maddie, are you ready?
Maddie's solo is a
contemporary piece
called Every Little Step.
It's extremely mature
in the choreography.
SINGER: ♪Moment without you...♪
Shoulders--posture there.
It's elegant as well
as entertaining.
Up, up, down, down, big jump!
SINGER: ♪I never will forget♪
MELISSA: I was watching Maddie
work on her solo
and I thought it was
really beautiful.
Maddie just has to work hard,
like she normally does,
and, you know,
just try to keep it together
and to get back on
top of the pyramid.
Your jump is going,
like, boom, boom, instead of...
Every kid needs to win
and every kid needs to lose.
Maddie needs to be on the bottom
so she can work harder
to get to the top.
I do not want you
on the bottom of the pyramid.
-Do you understand?
-Yes.
I want you stepping it up,
every little step.
-You got that?
-Yes.
All right.
Top of the pyramid.
As long as she goes out there
and does what she's been taught
to do,
she'll be right on top.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: Understand the music
is called "Over and Over,"
so there's a lot
of repeats in it.
That's why it's good for a trio.
Kendall, the music
is just as important.
Don't daydream over there.
When I look at you and go,
stop, you need to hit it.
-Okay.
-JILL: Here's poor little
Kendall,
who needs practice
and needs to work.
She's doing their music.
Yeah. That's unfortunate.
I'm so upset that Kendall
is spending all her precious
dance time,
which she does not get much of,
sitting on the floor,
running the music
for three dancers.
This is ridiculous.
ABBY: Okay. Let's go from the
top and see what we have.
(dramatic music playing)
I can't believe it!
What the heck did Kendall do
or I do that she
has to sit there now
and do--and do the music?
-CHRISTI: Uh, threw a shoe?
-JILL: She could be in another
room.
-Pardon me?
-Threw a shoe.
Are you kidding me?
CHRISTI:
Well, but you're saying what did
I do
or what did my daughter do.
Well, you threw a shoe
and your daughter still wasn't
at the bottom of the pyramid.
I'm pretty sure if I had thrown
that shoe at Abby,
my daughter wouldn't
have even been on the pyramid.
She would have been on the floor
and Abby would have been, like,
snuffing out like a cigarette.
Go away, Chloe, go away.
Catch this leg and hold it.
Three...
JILL: Their time is precious.
They have very little
time to waste it.
Sitting around pushing a button
for music is really a shame.
SINGER: ♪ I'm the
one you can run to ♪
Kendall!
Come on!
Are you learning something
by being in here?
Yes?
Because this is
how a trio works.
Do you see what they're doing?
Play it right there.
The problem is, is that
if you interrupt this class
she's going to be livid.
JILL: My objective is to
get my child out of there...
HOLLY: Mm-hmm.
...and do something productive,
-whether it's dance...
-Mm-hmm.
...which is what I pay Abby for,
or her homework.
I just--I think
that's going to--
I think that's gonna backfire.
JILL: I can't believe
I'm a nervous wreck
to talk to my dance teacher.
I should not have
these feelings.
I should be able to go down
and have a conversation with her
without all kinds of drama.
But I know it's not
going to happen.
ABBY: All right.
Play it right there.
JILL: I was thinking maybe
Kendall could be
more productive
doing her homework.
ABBY: She's the swing
for this number.
It's been an hour, Abby,
that she's been
sitting on the floor.
ABBY: She's helping me.
JILL: Abby, I want her to dance.
I don't pay tuition
for her to be out here
sitting on the floor.
I want you to
teach her to dance.
All those things you
said to me yesterday,
she needs to work on her
stretch, her this, her turns,
why are you not teaching her?
Why aren't you
helping her with this?
Well, because I'm
choreographing a trio, Jill.
Okay. So how much longer do you
think this trio is going to
take?
Because it's been
over an hour now.
CHRISTI: Is she yelling?
Jill's yelling?
She took her 900 voice
off for Abby now.
She flushed that down the
toilet, that voice.
She doesn't do it anymore.
Yes, she does.
She still says...
(whispering) "Guys..."
We come to dance to dance.
-And sitting there is not dance.
-Go.
ABBY: Jill needs to watch out,
I'll tell you why.
That kid of hers,
Kendall, is adorable.
I don't want to see
anything bad happen to her
because her mother's
not playing by my rules.
I'm not putting up
with that crap anymore.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY: It's always important
for Abby Lee Miller's students
to perform well
at a competition.
Now, remember,
the competition starts right
now.
There could be a judge
right around this corner.
But it's in our own backyard.
Everybody in Pittsburgh
is out to get us.
(suspenseful music playing)
Don't rush your music.
Don't anticipate it.
I'm really worried
about Chloe's competition.
That intermediate age group
is a tough category to be in.
I want to see your face.
Don't clink down too fast.
Got it?
Maddie, every step you take,
make sure that ankle is pressed
forward.
Get those knees together
at the end of the floor.
Squeeze those feet.
Watch those fingers,
that right hand.
CHRISTI: I really
hope for this week
that the girls pull this off.
Because nobody wants to incur
the wrath of Abby again.
You can do it.
Doesn't matter how
old the kids are.
Understood? Yes?
Just give your best performance.
(upbeat music playing)
(indistinct chatter)
CHLOE: I'm really excited
for my solo this week,
and it's lyrical contemporary.
And I think it's going to be
a good solo for me.
ANNOUNCER: Next up,
ladies and gentlemen,
this is an Intermediate
Lyrical Solo, "Please."
(cheers and applause)
(mellow music playing)
(singer vocalizing)
SINGER: ♪ My blue balloon ♪
♪ Just flies ahead of me ♪
♪ I tried to take it down ♪
♪ But it just moves away ♪
♪ Please, you're falling
this girl to her knees ♪
♪ Please... ♪
CHRISTI: I thought her solo
was probably her best solo
that she's done to date.
I thought it was amazing.
SINGER: ♪ You're falling
this girl to her knees ♪
♪ Please ♪
-(cheers and applause)
-ANNOUNCER: "Please".
That is act number 18,
an Immediate Lyrical Solo.
ABBY: Chloe did
an amazing job on her solo.
Her emotional execution
was the best I have ever seen
it.
(tense music playing)
MADDIE: Last week,
when we were in Texas,
I did a front aerial in my solo
and I fell in my hip.
And this week I'm scared
I'm going to do it again,
and I hope that I won't mess up.
ANNOUNCER: Next up is act number
23, "Every Little Step."
(cheers and applause)
SINGER: ♪ To hold you, to touch
you to look in your eyes ♪
♪ To hear you, to
feel your heartbeat ♪
♪ To feed you, to heal you
to hurt when you cry ♪
MELISSA: When I see
Maddie on stage,
all the blood, sweat, and tears,
it's all worth it.
SINGER: ♪Every little step
every little crawl ♪
♪ I never will forget
even if it's small ♪
♪ And I don't want this fantasy
no more made ♪
♪ Without you ♪
(cheers and applause)
She hit everything
she needed to.
I think Maddie was amazing.
(cheering)
CHRISTI: You did fabulous.
Woo-hoo!
Best emotional execution
you've had doing a solo.
Thank you.
ABBY: Yes. You changed
with the music.
You changed your face.
You looked at the judges.
I have been on our back
about watching those judges,
and she certainly did that.
That is a big jump for that kid.
Your quality of your dancing
was very mature.
You were great.
I think I can see myself moving
up the pyramid a little bit.
(upbeat music playing)
(applause)
ABBY: The trio
is the hardest thing to space.
Be conscious of each
other on stage. Yes?
PAIGE: I'm a little bit nervous
for performing at Hollywood
Vibe,
because they're
really good there.
But we have some
of the same judges we did last
time.
So, hopefully, they remember us.
ANNOUNCER: Next up,
ladies and gentlemen,
coming to our stage is act
number 34, "Over and Over."
(cheers and applause)
(mellow music playing)
The spacing is off.
MELISSA: I look up and
the spacing is off.
And I'm like, oh, jeez.
Abby's going to freak
out on the girls.
SINGER: ♪ Over and over
know this is true ♪
ABBY: I don't know
what those girls were doing.
They got out there and blew it.
What was I expecting?
They couldn't even remember
the choreography in class.
How could they get out there
and do it perfectly on stage?
Frankly, I was afraid
to even watch the trio.
SINGER: ♪ Over
and over for you ♪
♪ Over for you ♪
(cheers and applause)
ANNOUNCER: "Over and Over."
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER: Third place,
number 21, "Armed."
(cheers and applause)
ANNOUNCER: Second place winner,
number 18, "Please."
(cheers and applause)
ANNOUNCER: Great job.
Solo Division--
first place trophy overall goes
to
act number 23,
"Every Little Step."
(cheers and applause)
MELISSA: Maddie deserved this
win at Hollywood Vibe.
She's been working
very hard on her solo.
She was at the bottom
of the pyramid,
and she worked her butt off.
So she is where she belongs.
ANNOUNCER: Junior Overall
High Score Duo/Trio,
second place winner Intermediate
Duo/Trio is "Over and Over."
(applause)
ABBY: A trio coming in
second place means they lost.
Remember, second place
is the first loser on stage.
CHRISTI: Because I think
that the color was pretty.
-Hey, hey.
-Hello.
What did you think?
(suspenseful music playing)
Maddie, you were great.
Paige, were you late
at the beginning?
No.
ABBY: No?
There was a big gap there.
You were a little late
on those coupé turns.
I wasn't happy with how you did.
KELLY: Abby will never
take responsibility.
It's always somebody
else's fault.
Either it's the girl's fault
or it's the mom's fault.
It's anybody's fault but Abby's.
You at least got to give
some positive to those kids.
I just don't like
enabling kids to keep...
Abby, I support that.
But I think you can prepare kids
to take ownership of mistakes
without belittling
them. Kids should--
But that's not Abby Lee Miller.
Kids should--I know, but Abby--
That's not my way.
That's not my nature.
-HOLLY: They should own their
mistakes. -ABBY: I don't sugar
coat it.
I have the success rate I have
-with producing professional
dancers... -HOLLY: Absolutely.
...because of the delivery.
Everyone forgets
that I've been doing this for 31
years.
There's a whole lot
that goes into training a child.
These moms need to understand
this is not a dance camp.
It's not fun for everyone.
KELLY: Isn't there something,
like, to having hope?
Like, if you have hopes and
dreams, you work towards them.
If you keep crushing them down
just because your kid
isn't the best turner and this
kid is--
if you keep crushing
this one down,
they're never going
to become good.
If that kid loved to dance,
she'd have remembered that trio.
Whatever.
ABBY: These mothers
pass the buck onto somebody else
for their children's mistakes.
So, you know what?
Own it.
I had a bad day.
My kid screwed up.
CHRISTI: You made
my daughter cry, and you're--
She didn't remember the number!
-Abby! How many dances--
-KELLY: Maybe 'cause you didn't
run it!
--does that kid
remember every week
and go out there
and deliver 'em?
ABBY: I don't know!
But you know the one I remember?
The one where she forgot
her dance on stage at nationals
and ran around to music.
That's the one I remember.
Of course it is,
because you are Negative Nellie,
glass half full.
KELLY: I saw Jill,
at the competition,
talking to people
from her old studio.
Jill, have you seen some
of your old studio friends?
Just a few. Yeah.
Keeping your tabs
on that old studio.
Absolutely. Why?
Are you guys not
allowed to, like...
-No.
JILL: ...fraternize
with the enemy?
CHRISTI: No, absolutely not.
That's crazy. Why?
She wants to discourage
studio hopping.
I am not surprised at all
that she has been in contact
with her old studios.
That's what Jill does.
She always looks for where
the grass is greener,
and that's where she
goes out to pasture.
You know what?
Always got to keep your options
open.
Is--is that the reason
why you were out there
chit-chatting with
all your old friends,
-'cause of the way this one's
going? -It's actually
-none of your business, but yes,
I'm-- -Well, it's my business,
because--
Who I talk to is your business?
-I don't think so.
-Oh, no, no.
It's my business
if you're only here
to gather information
and go back to your old studio.
That's my business
because it affects my daughter.
You guys sit here
and you complain and you
complain
and you bitch at Abby,
but you never move.
Pick up and move!
Maybe you will find
something else.
You really, really, really
like to change studios.
So maybe you ought
to change back
and go back to Studio 19,
if it was so great.
You know what?
Maybe it is.
Kelly and Christi
are stinking up the place.
All this bitching
is flying around,
and I really need
to get out of here.
-CHRISTI: Don't let the door hit
ya! -I can't take you guys
anymore.
I can't take this.
CHRISTI: What a surprise.
Jill stormed out of
a room, once again.
(upbeat music playing)
ABBY:
I want you to come armed and
dangerous.
I want you to walk out there
like you're somebody.
I want you to kill it.
What are we doing
about the clip?
I don't have a--I
think your clip.
NIA: It broke.
I think Nia's is broken.
What did you think you were
going to wear in your hair?
I didn't know that
you were asking for a clip.
When has Abby Lee Miller
ever put a number on stage
without some type of headpiece?
I was having a good old time
shooting up the moms in the
dressing room.
That was like, a fantasy.
Whose gun? Brooke,
do you have a gun?
Ladies you have all those hours
you sit upstairs in that
mezzanine.
Make a list of what
your kid needs.
And if you don't have
a check mark next to it,
come and ask me or
send the kid in.
Abby is having a
ball with the guns.
I think the guns are really for
Abby, more so than the girls.
ABBY: Let's do it.
We're in Pittsburgh.
Come on!
(indistinct chatter)
(upbeat music playing)
ANNOUNCER: Next to the stage,
ladies and gentlemen
here at Hollywood Vibe,
please welcome "Private Eyes."
(cheers and applause)
(upbeat music playing)
HOLLY: I thought the group
looked fantastic on stage.
They had incredible energy.
I wish I could say
I was horrified by the guns,
but they were better
than I thought.
(upbeat music playing)
-(cheers and applause)
-ANNOUNCER: "Private Eyes!"
ABBY: I was beaming.
I thought they looked
gorgeous on stage.
Finally, they had a group number
that was dancing
like one person,
instead of six different
soloists out there.
ANNOUNCER: Third place goes to
act number 21, "Arms."
(cheers and applause)
ANNOUNCER: Second
place trophy goes to...
act number 19A, "What
Do I Want to Do?"
(cheers and applause)
ANNOUNCER: First place winner
is act number 3, "Private Eyes."
(cheers and applause)
ANNOUNCER: Congratulations.
I was very confident
that the girls would win first
place
in the Jazz category.
There were lots of other
great numbers there.
But they were so clean
and so professional,
they had it in the bag.
ANNOUNCER: Uh-oh--
Overall High Scoring Group.
My hopes are that this group
number wins first overall.
And it's time for these girls
to bring home a win.
CHLOE: I think the group
number's do-- going to do pretty
good.
I mean, we've got guns.
What else could go wrong?
ANNOUNCER: $200 going out
to act number 22, "War."
(cheers and applause)
ABBY: The group dance
did not win the overall.
I thought for sure,
with the level of difficulty,
that they were going to win
that. And they didn't.
Hey, hey.
Hi.
Did you see that gold on that
stage? It just--
-JILL: Gorgeous.
-It popped.
I didn't think it had it
all together at the beginning of
the week.
-And seeing it on stage...
-Oh, they were fabulous.
...I have to admit I was wrong.
ABBY: They looked
like they were in a show.
It was great.
-It was really good.
Don't your stomachs get full
eating crow week
after week after week?
JILL: I thought the number
looked great on stage.
But maybe if you did more turn--
more group turns
made it so dynamic.
I just think that
this group of kids
were not all used
to their fullest potential.
Maybe Maddie was.
I know for a fact Kendall
wasn't used to her fullest
potential.
ABBY: Jill is certainly
not learning from her mistakes.
She comes at me in a combative
way, rips on my choreography.
Jill, butt out,
follow the rules,
and let me work with Kendall.
JILL: You were all excited
to give her a special part,
and there was no special part.
She did what everybody else did,
and less than some.
I think Jill's idea
of a special part
is everybody else stands
on stage and poses,
then Kendall dances
in the middle.
ABBY: Jill, Kendall
is a beautiful girl.
She picks up very quick.
Does she need technique? Yes.
Do all of them? Yes.
That's a growing process.
It takes years to develop.
And I don't think you should
run your studio like that.
I produce employable,
working dancers, not
competition kids.
You need to keep your eye on the
ball in the big picture.
What is my big picture?
Every weekend,
do I have to look forward to
coming,
dancing behind Maddie and Chloe,
and never being put in a trio,
never doing the solo?
I get nothing, Abby!
You're telling me look
at the big picture.
And I am, and I don't like it!
ABBY: I don't know.
I don't know what
is wrong with her.
It's going to all shake out
in the wash for Kendall,
but I don't know if she's
going to make it that long.
Because the mother is
out to destroy her.
Give her a solo, Abby!
Let her do a trio!
Give her something!
ABBY: Don't worry.
I have something
perfect in mind for you.